---
id: 10
timestamp: 1336780813
author: "Matt Keller"
title: "What is the Deal with the Go Programming Language?"
---

Go is a new programming language being developed within Google. It started around 2007 and the first version  was released March 28th of this year (2012). The aim of Go was to have a system level language that was as fast as statically typed languages(C, C++), which is to say that the type of a variable is checked when the code is compiled, but as easy to write as dynamically typed languages, which check the type when the code in run.  

Dynamically typed languages allow the programmer more flexibility but that flexibility comes at the cost of speed. Programs run slower.

Statically typed languages run fast but in general the programmer needs to be much more explicit with the way they write their programs.

I watched [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rKnDgT73v8s) to get an idea of what Go is all about. In it the Rob Pike, one of the original creators of the language, talks about the present state of coding:

-   It takes a long time to write code
-   It takes a long time to compile the code once it is written
-   Dependencies are not controlled

This is where Go comes in (so say the people who wrote it)

Go is garbage collected which helps the code to be easier to write because the compiler and garbage collector take care of the memory management details.

I imagine there are many things going on in the background that lead to the programs compiling faster but the big one that Pike mentions is that if there is a program a.go that depends on b.go which in turn depends on c.go  the compiler looks no further than b. Which leads to exponential speed increases at scale

Finally Go treats an unused dependency as an error, which is how Go controls dependencies.

**Interfaces**

One of the most interesting things about Go is the way that it handles interfaces. No explicit denomination of a particular object as an implementation of an interface is necessary. Any object that implements the functions in the interface can be assigned to an instance of the an interface object. For a more concrete example:
  
```go
type Foo-interface interface {
 Foo() int;
}

type Bar struct { A int }

func (b *Bar) Foo() int { return A }

var f Foo-interface;

b := Bar{3};

f = b;

f.Foo();
```
  

**In Sum:**

The writers of Go seem to have made impressive strides to creating a programming language that addresses many of the problems that programmers are having

Google never ceases to amaze me