---
id: 8
timestamp: 1336608013
author: "Matt Keller"
title: "What's the deal with Kaggle?"
excerpt: "Let's unpack what is the idea behind the new competitive data-science website."
---

Kaggle is a competitive data science website. What this amounts to is that people sign into their site and either  
  
A. post data and a way to measure performance  
B. download data and produce models that portray the underlying system that is producing the data.  
  
Molly and I downloaded the data for [this competition.](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bioresponse) It challenges users to take 1776 aspects of a set of molecules and create a model for predicting if a biological response will happen. They have 2 sets of data, the training data and the test data.

### Training
Response|Mass|Radius|Charge|Chirality
----------|----|----|----|------
1|0.0 |0.4 |0.1 |0.0
0|0.3 |0.61|0.06|0.25
1|0.23|0.4 |0.0 |0.75
0|0.0 |0.5 |0.8 |0.5

### Test
Mass|Radius|Charge|Chirality
----|----|----|------
0.37 |0.691 |0.0 |0.0
0.0 |0.55|0.0|0.0
0.67|0.5 |0.1 |0.5
0.1 |0.15 |0.1 |0.25

These are simplified versions of the actual tables and the descriptors are obfuscated meaning the competitors know how any of the columns physically relate to the actual molecule. The important part of this is that the Training data gave us the descriptors and whether the molecule evoked the response whereas the training data only provides the descriptors.  
  
 As a competing team it was our job to take the training data and create a model. From this model, you make provide a list of probabilities on the test molecules based on how they fit into your model. Once you come up with your list of probabilities the site automatically calculates your performance with this formula:
 
 This formula is calculated on list of probabilities

_y__i_ = the ground truth or whether the molecule evoked a response.

_y__ihat_ = our probability for the molecule.

**In Sum:**
- Math is hard
- At present time Molly and I are 397th on the list