---
id: 16
timestamp: 1337304638
author: "Matt Keller"
title: "What features of Toy Home do I want to emulate/change/remove?"
---

There are many things to like about Toy Home. It has a very simple control scheme. The main controls for driving the car are as follows:  
  
Right Trigger: Gas  
Left Trigger: Brake/Reverse  
Tilt: Steer  
  
In addition to the main driving controls there are also the bonus buttons:  
  
Cross: Jump  
Circle: Use Power Up  
Square: E-Brake  
Triangle: Boost  
  
And those are all of the controls. So I intend to have this as a PC game that you play with a keyboard and maybe a mouse. I don't think I will support motion sensitivity. Who knows? Aside from that I think that the controls will be exactly the same except mapped to the keyboard somehow. In terms of types of vehicles I would be interested to add Sea and Air to the types of supported vehicles, because presently there are only cars. In every level there will be a place for water were people could go after coins there. I think I would want to have three types of vehicles, on each for the pairwise combinations of Land, Air and Sea.  
  
Multiplayer:  
This game in my experience has shined with it's multiplayer experience. I would like this to be the sort of game you would play over LAN with a few of your friends.  
  
Singleplayer:  
I don't know if I would want to have a single player mode. I certainly wouldn't discount it right off the bat.  
  
## In Sum  
There are several things I want to change and several things I want to keep