---
id: 14
timestamp: 1337131838
author: "Matt Keller"
title: "How Can I make a Simple Level in UDK?"
---

The method of creating the static portions of levels as inspired by UDK has two main phases:  

1.  BSP Phase
2.  Static Mesh Phase

When I say static I just mean that the player has no way to interact with them aside from maybe to collide with them or climb on top of them. There are many other steps associated with all of the things that the use can act with but I won't talk about that here.

### BSP Phase
BSP stands for Binary Space Partition. When a user starts a blank level there is only a red wireframe cube to begin with. This is called the red builder brush(rbb). Although it may be funny to think about, that is exactly what it is. A three dimensional paint brush. The user transforms the rbb and indicates that they want to put an additive brush, which is the 3D equivalent of putting the brush to the paper. Using primative modelling techniques you provide the basic layout of your level.

### Static Mesh Phase
Once you have finalized your BSP brushes, it is time to decorate it. In this way UDK is very similar to a much less restricted version of little big planet. There is a whole catalog of all different static meshes that you can add to the your level to make it look more interesting and give it things that the player will interact with. For example stairs are something that you would build using static meshes instead of BSP brushes becaus BSP is slower than static meshes in more ways than one.

### In Sum
There is a lot of freedom in UDK but along with that freedom comes the need to do much more work to do anything UDK tries to alleviate that by having pre-formed meshes, not unlike LBP.